# Purpose

The idea of this tool is to automate the writing of the Advanced Lift Drag plugin by automatizing the coefficient generation and requiring minimal user calculations.

# Functionality

The tool first asks the user for a range of vehicle specific parameters that are needed in order to specify the geometry and physical properties of the plane. The user has the choice to define a completely custom model, or alternatively select a predefined model template (such as a Cessna or a VTOL), which has a known number of control surfaces, and then provide only some physical properties, without having to define the entire model themselves. The input_avl.py file takes the provided parameter and creates an .avl file from this that can be read by AVL (the program). This happens in the process.sh file. The necessary output generated by AVL will be saved in two files: custom_vehicle_body_axis_derivatives.txt and custom_vehicle_stability_derivatives.txt. These two files contain the parameters that are required in order to populate the Advanced Lift Drag Plugin. Finally, avl_out_parse.py reads the generated .txt files and accordingly assigns parameters to the correct element in sdf. Once this is done, it is only a question of copy and pasting the generated Advanced Lift Drag plugin (found as <custom_plane>.sdf into the desired model.sdf file. )

# Setup

In order to run this program, it is necessary to download AVL and run the setup.sh

Running individual parts: run just one section TODO: provide custom commands to do this.


# IMPORTANT POINTS TO NOTE
A control surface in AVL is always defined from left to right. This means you need to first provide the left edge of a surface and then the right edge. If you do this the opposite way around, a surface will essentially be defined upside down. 

